> is it the memory/c(g)pu connections on the gfx board or really the main board?

difficult to say with any degree of certainty. given that it was
triggered both by heat and by pressing on the keyboard above the
card, i'd say it was the ball grid array underneath one or more of the
5 large chips. (cpu and 4x memory chip) as a crack or some other
structural problem would not have been remedied by heating so it must
have been the solder, and then i'd estimate that the other components on
the card are too small to be affected by any flexing produced by
pressing down on the keyboard.  it's certainly the a problem with the
solder on the gfx board somewhere. (i've done nothing to the cables or
the rest of the laptop at any rate... well, other than losing a handful
of screws ;)

> where did you read about trying this anyway?

i found a thread on a notebook forum via google.

http://www.notebookforums.com/showthread.php?s=b072c74b768ad79defd36d42726057e9&t=48948

i posted a reply towards the end of it recently detailing roughly
what i did to fix it. there seem to be some unscrupulous people
who have cottoned on to this easy fix and are trying to relieve
people of their broken satellites for pittance by claiming they
are very hard to fix and require expensive rework stations and
lots of experience. sigh.

sadly i didn't have the foresight to take pictures of the various
steps but i can explain what i did.

i removed the card, removed the copper shield, removed the 2
small black foam supports and placed it on a heat proof surface.

i made some small supports out of rolled up tin foil to support
the card. (i didn't want the components currently on the bottom
to move around if the heat passed through the board and melted the
solder underneath) it's probably not necessary and you can improvise
here. just try to ensure that the card isn't resting on a potentially
mobile component.

i switched on the gun on high heat and held it 12 inches above the
card and slowly (over 40 seconds to a minute) lowered the gun closer
to the card until it was about an inch away from one of the chips.

(i was holding the gun so all measurements are approximate)

you should be able to see other components nearby melt as when the
solder becomes fluid, if also becomes shinier / smoother)

i recall reading that i should continue to heat for another 30 seconds
or so then stop. this is firstly because BGA is shielded from direct
heat by the silicone (it's underneath the chip and in fact you can't see
whether you've actually melted it or not at any point during the
proceedure) and so need to be heated longer and secondly because the
that gun can heat to around 500 degrees C and this is close to the max
heat tolerance of the silcone (or so i'd read, i doubt that this is the
case now).
i tried that for all the chips on one side. then let it cool naturally
for 10-15 minutes, turned it over and did the same to the other side.
it didn't work. i tried again.  it still didn't work.
on the final attempt i dispensed with nervously
heating the chips for fixed periods of time and really gave the
whole board a good going over to the extent that the serial number
curled up and melted and the plastic washers underneath the
black foam circles burnt away to nothing. and it all worked
fine and does to this day. i suspect that the silicone is
not as susceptible to heat damage as i'd thought and the same
probably goes for the other components. however, i could
have just been lucky. so you attempt this procedure at your
own risk. (i have no qualifications pertaining to electronics
repair whatsoever but i'm instinctively good at it and think nothing
at all of dismantling expensive equipment ;)

it's unfortunate that i can't give you any precise heating times
but i'd lost all patience after assembling and disassembling that
damn laptop time and time again and wasn't paying much attention
to the time.

if you have any more questions then please ask.

cheers,
pete.


